README.rst, before:

Matplotlib HTML5 Canvas Backend
===============================

This provides a web-delivered interactive matplotlib backend using HTML5
technologies including `WebSocket`_ and the `Canvas`_ element.

Our main goal is to have a backend that is consistent across multiple platforms,
has few installation dependencies, is easy and fast to animate, and retains
compatibility with current matplotlib usage scenarios.

Installation instructions can be found below or on the project's `Wiki`_ page.
The short answer::

  easy_install mplh5canvas

Features
--------

- Pure Python
- Uses mod_pywebsocket to provide multi browser support through multiple websocket standards
- Requires web browser with Canvas and WebSocket support (Chrome 4+, Safari 5+ (OSX and IOS)
  work out of the box. Opera 11+ works after enabling WebSockets in preferences. Firefox
  is not supported and Internet Explorer will never be supported.)
- Designed with animation and interactivity in mind (resizable, zoomable,
  clickable regions, etc)
- Simple plots (e.g. a 2048-point line plot) can be animated at around 60 frames
  per second
- Allows proper remote access to plots
- Allows multiple concurrent access to plots
- Thumbnail window allows quick cycling between plots on a single page

Screenshot
----------

.. image:: http://mplh5canvas.googlecode.com/files/screenshot.png
   :height: 600px

.. _WebSocket: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebSockets
.. _Canvas: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canvas_element
.. _Wiki: http://code.google.com/p/mplh5canvas/wiki/Installation

Commit message:

Updated documentation to reflect the current status quo of browser support. Mention how to get easy_install in response to wiki comment.

README.rst, after:

Matplotlib HTML5 Canvas Backend
===============================

This provides a web-delivered interactive matplotlib backend using HTML5
technologies including `WebSocket`_ and the `Canvas`_ element.

Our main goal is to have a backend that is consistent across multiple platforms,
has few installation dependencies, is easy and fast to animate, and retains
compatibility with current matplotlib usage scenarios.

Installation instructions can be found below or on the project's `Wiki`_ page.
The short answer::

  easy_install mplh5canvas

Features
--------

- Pure Python
- Uses mod_pywebsocket to provide multi-browser support through multiple websocket standards
- Requires up-to-date web browser with Canvas and WebSocket support (since the start of 2013 the latest versions of all major browsers should work out of the box - see `Wiki`_ page for more details)
- Designed with animation and interactivity in mind (resizable, zoomable,
  clickable regions, etc)
- Simple plots (e.g. a 2048-point line plot) can be animated at around 60 frames
  per second
- Allows proper remote access to plots
- Allows multiple concurrent access to plots
- Thumbnail window allows quick cycling between plots on a single page

Screenshot
----------

.. image:: http://mplh5canvas.googlecode.com/files/screenshot.png
   :height: 600px

.. _WebSocket: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WebSocket
.. _Canvas: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canvas_element
.. _Wiki: http://code.google.com/p/mplh5canvas/wiki/Installation
